Download and install Azure Storage Explorer
First, you need to download and install Storage Explorer.

Browse to the Azure Storage Explorer website.

In the Operating system field, select your preferred operating system. The following steps will go through the Windows version of the application. Your steps will be different if you're using a different OS.

Select Download now to download the Storage Explorer installer application to your computer.

Locate the downloaded file and run it. For the Windows version, use the StorageExplorer.exe file.

Accept the license agreement, and select Install.

Browse to the location where you want to install Storage Explorer, or accept the default location. Then, select Next.

For Windows installations, select the Start menu folder. Accept the default, and select Next.

When the installation is complete, select Finish.

Storage Explorer automatically opens after installation.

Connect to an Azure account
When you first open Storage Explorer, it displays the Connect to Azure Storage wizard.


First, connect to Azure. Choose Subscription.


There are several Azure environment options to select from. Select Azure, and then select Next.


An Azure sign-in page appears. Use your Azure credentials to sign in.

When you've signed in to your Azure instance, the associated Azure account and Azure subscription appear in the Account Management section.

Confirm that the Concierge Subscription subscription is selected and account details are correct, and then select Apply.

You've now connected Storage Explorer to your Azure subscription. Leave Storage Explorer open while you work through the next steps.

Create a storage account and add a blob

1. In Azure Cloud Shell, run the following command to create a storage account.

Azure CLI

az storage account create \
--name  mslearn$RANDOM \
--resource-group learn-732892a5-7d43-4005-a62c-e7858680f823 \
--sku Standard_GRS \
--kind StorageV2


In the output, note the name of the storage account. After the storage account is created, switch back to Storage Explorer.

2. If it isn't currently visible, toggle the EXPLORER view so that the pane is shown.

3. In the EXPLORER pane, select Refresh All, then locate and expand Concierge Subscription.

4. Locate and expand the storage account that you created earlier. It should be named something similar to mslearn12345 and ends
with a different set of numbers. It has four virtual folders: Blob Containers, File Shares, Queues, and Tables.

5. Right-click the Blob Containers virtual folder to access the shortcut menu, and then select Create Blob Container.

6. Name the container myblobcontainer, and press Enter.

Each created container appears in a tab to the right of the resource tree.

7. Upload a blob to the container. In the myblobcontainer pane, select Upload, and then select Upload Files. The Upload Files dialog box appears.

8. For Selected files, select the ellipsis (...). Browse to a small file on your device, and select Open. Then, select Upload to upload the file.

You should now see your file stored in your storage account.

From here, you can upload additional files, download files, make copies, and do other administrative tasks.



Create a queue in your Azure storage account
To create a queue in your storage account:

In the resource tree, find Concierge Subscription, and expand the options.

Select the cloudshell storage account.

Right-click the Queues virtual folder to access the shortcut menu, and then select Create Queue.

An empty and unnamed queue is created inside the Queues folder. The queue won't be created until you give it a name.

Note

Containers have specific rules that govern how they can be named. They must begin and end in either a letter or a number, must be all lowercase, and can have numbers and hyphens. The name can't contain a double hyphen.


Name this new queue myqueue, and press Enter to create the queue. Each created queue appears on a tab to the right of the resource tree.

From this view, you can manage the content of the queue. If our application used this queue and experienced an issue with processing a message, you could connect to the queue, and view the contents of a message to determine the issue.















